---
title: "stop smoking"
bg: turquoise
color: white
#icon: img/smoking3.png

fa-icon: icon-ban-circle

---

#### Give up smoking

Can you imagine yourself tobacco free by this time next year? Picture yourself free of paying for tobacco, free of the health risk of tobacco and yes, free of the smell of tobacco. We can help! If you’re serious about quitting, it’s time to get started. Now. Take small steps, talk to someone, and get the support you need. But above all, take an action step below that works best for you.

#### Action Steps

*Set a quit date.* Pick a date within two weeks so you don’t lose momentum. Write the date down in your calendar to make it official.

*Build a cheerleading team.* Tell friends, family and co-workers about your plans to quit. Ask for their help by not smoking around you or keeping you busy when a craving hits.

*Anticipate and plan.*  The first three months are the hardest. Plan how you will handle withdrawal symptoms, cravings, and smoking triggers and cues.

*Say goodybye.* Remove cigarettes and other tobacco products from your home, car and work. Also, get rid of things that remind you of smoking, such as ashtrays and lighters.

*Talk to your doctor.* Talk to your doctor about getting help to quit. Your doctor can help you choose a smoking cessation medication, nicotine replacement therapy, find a counselor, or refer you to QuitlineNC.

> State Health Plan Active Employees:
> Get started! Pick your quit date now. There’s no reason to wait. Then call a Quit Coach for the support you need, at 800-784-8669.
