---
title: "de-stress"
bg: '#63BD2F'
color: white
fa-icon: heart
---

#### Reduce Stress: Understanding the Mind-Body Connection

Each year, 1 in 5 American adults and children will experience a diagnosable mental health condition. May is Mental Health Month, and it is a great time to understand how stress and your response to stress affect your mental as well as physical health.

Since the 1960s, researchers have been looking at the mind-body connection more closely.  Scientists have found a great deal of data linking certain beliefs and emotions with physical ailments, especially heart disease.  Research shows that:

* A number of emotional and social factors contribute to heart disease.  These include depression, isolation, poverty, stress, and emotional strains.
* Patients who describe themselves as highly optimistic had a lower risk of early death, including cardiovascular death, than their highly pessimistic counterparts.
* A positive outlook also seems to help the body ward off less serious diseases, including the common cold.
* Stress or a change of mood affects the production of certain enzymes that play a role in wound healing.  
* There is direct link between chronic stress and premature aging of cells.

What does all this mean?  Your mood matters, not only to your mental health but your physical health too!  You should not brush off chronic sadness, depression, stress, and anxiety.  Respond to stress in healthy ways, such as by exercising and setting aside time every day for YOU to relax, recharge, and reflect on the positive elements of day.  

If coping strategies such as these do not lift your mood, seek help from a professional. Mental health conditions are not a sign of weakness. Underlying conditions can often be resolved or managed with help from a counselor, medical provider, or other mental health professional. So don’t delay seeking help!

#### Action Steps
*Enlist the help of others.* Ask for help when you need it. Often times, our co-workers, friends, and family would be happy to jump in and lighten our loads—we just have to ask.

*Reward yourself.* Every day comes with its own challenges and lists of tasks. Don’t let yourself roll from one completed task to the next without patting yourself on the back. Take a moment to congratulate yourself for even the smallest accomplishments.  And for bigger accomplishments, reward yourself with something special like a good magazine or a movie with a friend. When you reward yourself, make sure that the rewarding behavior is also healthy. For example, it would be better to have going to a movie be a reward for exercising than eating a chocolate bar.

*De-stress on the spot.* When you are in the middle of a stressful experience but cannot escape, stand tall and take three deep breaths. This helps you think clearly and leaves you feeling strong and energized. Practice taking three deep breaths every hour on the hour so you will do it naturally when faced with stress.

> State Health Plan Active Employees:
> Get started!  Call a healthy lifestyle coach today at 800-817-7044 to learn how to better manage stress. It really helps to talk to someone!
