---
title: "welcome"
bg: white
color: black
#style: center
---

### *Build Your Health Intelligence*
{: .text-grey}

Actively working State Health Plan members are a diverse group, ranging in age from their teens to their 60s and in education from high school graduates to Ph.Ds. One thing we all have in common is a desire for good health – whether to maintain the good health we have or to reach a state of better health.

The State Health Plan can help.  In this section, you’ll find an array of material designed for quick reference and easy use. Think of it as a resource to build your Health Intelligence, or H.I. We’ve identified five key areas of health importance for our fellow Plan members. Think of it as your "H.I. 5."

* Diet
* Exercise
* De-Stress
* Track
* Stop Smoking

And not to alarm anyone unnecessarily, but the need for action is real. As recently as 2013, a health profile of Plan members revealed that 51.5 percent of members suffer from the following chronic diseases:  

<div id="chart_div"></div>

Among those with chronic conditions, the top four were:

1. Hypertension
2. Back & Joint Disorders
3. Diabetes
4. Mental Health

Top risk factors among Plan members included:

* Members who smoke: 10.9%
* Members who are overweight: 66.9%. Among those, obesity accounted for 32.1%

These conditions, if left untreated, can lead to health complications for individual members and higher health costs for all Plan members. The good news is that simple steps – in reducing weight, eating healthy and reducing stress – can go a long way to easing these chronic conditions. That’s where you, as individual Plan members, come in.

The need is apparent. The resources are identified below. The rest is up to you. Start slowly and build on success. Hit your H.I. 5 this year, one at a time.  Pick one area and own it to make a lifestyle difference.
