---
title: "Exercise"
bg: '#f2760a'
color: white
fa-icon: bicycle
---

#### Move Every Day!

Exercise can help you control your weight, combat heart disease and other health conditions, and boost your mood and energy levels.

Only one in three adults gets the recommended amount of exercise - 30 minutes of physical activity each day.

#### Action Steps

*Get a checkup.* Before beginning any workout program, get an appointment with your doctor. A checkup, if you haven’t had one recently, will give you a good idea of where you stand and what you need to work on. A doctor’s advice and a clean bill of health also clear the mind and help you focus on the task before you.

*Connect with family and friends.* Turn your evening exercise into a walk with your spouse, invite friends over for a potluck-style dinner, or schedule a getaway with your family— quality time with loved ones helps keep us energized.

*Schedule it.* If we prioritized going to the gym like we prioritized meetings at work, we might all be healthier. Too often, healthy habits are viewed as optional, but you are a priority! Putting things on your calendar will help you keep health at the top of your to-do list.  For example, schedule time to meditate every day for 5-10 minutes at 7 a.m. and commit to keeping that appointment.

> State Health Plan Active Employees:
> Get started!  Go to [Eat Smart, Move More, Weigh Less](https://esmmweighless.com/) and take a quick tour. Find out how the program works and decide if it’s right for you!
