---
title: "Diet"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: cutlery
---

#### Change Your Diet
Don’t like diets? Don’t start one! Instead, start a new lifestyle, one step at a time. The key to making long-term changes in what you eat is to turn those small steps into habits.

Here’s one quick easy way to get started: Measure the calories you eat on an average day. Take a full week and write down your calories for each day, then divide by seven. That number is your start point. Say you average 2,500 calories a day. Two weeks after you start, drop the calories you eat by 100 or 200. And then don’t go back.

Keep dropping that calorie limit until you reach a balance between eating enough fewer calories so you slowly lose weight, but not so few that you feel absolutely starved. Everyone will have a different balance point.

Since 1 pound equals roughly 3,500 calories, the weight will come off – as long as you keep exercising. Accept and endure the inevitable weight “plateaus” you will encounter along the way. A three-month weight loss chart can help you keep track of the big picture.

That’s just one idea on achieving weight loss. For more ways to take action, see below!


#### Action Steps

*Establish daily rituals.* Eat a healthy breakfast, take a walk after lunch, make dinner with your family, and go to sleep and wake up at the same time – even on weekends. These rituals will help you feel less stressed and more energized.

*Start a food diary.* Start a brief written daily log of foods consumed, calories and fitness activities. You can purchase a health journal, or make your own with a binder. There are many online printable daily food, exercise and weight loss sheets. Pick one, put it in a binder and you’re ready to go. Then, start dropping the calendars you eat each day by 100 or 200 calories.

> State Health Plan Active Employees:
> Get started!  Go to [Eat Smart, Move More, Weigh Less](https://esmmweighless.com/) and take a quick tour. Find out how the program works and decide if it’s right for you!
